Maritime tutorials 💧 - Part 4 of 4 (#2260)
gazebosim/gz-sim: tutorials/surface_vehicles.md

\page surface_vehicles

# Overview

This tutorial explains how to create and load a maritime surface vehicle in

> Gazebo. This type of vehicles usually have multiple thrusters and navigate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gazebo. This type of vehicle usually has multiple thrusters and navigate
```

export GZ_SIM_SYSTEM_PLUGIN_PATH=$GZ_SIM_SYSTEM_PLUGIN_PATH:~/gazebo_maritime_ws/install/lib
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:~/gazebo_maritime_ws/install/lib
```

And run the simulation:

```bash
gz sim -r src/gazebo_maritime/worlds/sydney_regatta.sdf
```

@image html files/surface_vehicles/sydney_regatta.png

Gazebo is loaded with the Sydney Regatta Center!

# Create your vehicle

It's time to create our maritime surface vehicle. We're going to use the
Wave Adaptive Modular Vehicle (WAM-V) as the surface platform. This is the
robot that we use in the [VRX project](https://github.com/osrf/vrx) as well. 

## Basic SDF

Let's start with the basic SDF of the WAM-V platform. Open with your favorite
editor the file
`~/gazebo_maritime_ws/src/gazebo_maritime/models/wam-v/model.sdf`.

Notice how the vehicle is composed by multiple links:

```bash
wam-v
└────────────────────────────── base_link               
  left_chasis_engine_joint└─────── left_engine_link
     left_engine_propeller_joint└─────── left_propeller_link
 
  right_chasis_engine_joint└─────── right_engine_link
    right_engine_propeller_joint└─────── right_propeller_link
```

> The main chasis with the two rigid pontoons are captured by `base_link`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main chassis with the two rigid pontoons are captured by `base_link`.
```

A revolute joint (`left_chasis_engine_joint`) connects the chasis and the
`left_engine_link`. The purpose of this connection is to allow the engine to
rotate. This is an additional degree of freedom that we expose to make the
thruster control more flexible. Then, the `left_engine_link` is connected to the
`left_propeller_link` via the revolute joint `left_engine_propeller_joint`.
The purpose of this connection is to allow the propeller to spin. This
kinematic structure is repeated on the right side.

Uncomment now the following block in the `sydney_regatta.sdf` file:

```xml
<!-- Uncomment this block to load the WAM-V model-->
<include>
  <name>wam-V</name>
  <pose>-532 162 0 0 0 1</pose>
  <uri>wam-v</uri>
</include>
```

And launch Gazebo:

```bash
gz sim src/gazebo_maritime/worlds/sydney_regatta.sdf
```

@image html files/surface_vehicles/wamv.png

If you hit play, your WAM-V will sink (sad but expected). There's no buoyancy
enabled yet.

## Checking frame of reference

> Launch your lander in Gazebo as we did before:

Reviewer: "lander"? or world?

Author: Fixed in 292e12d.

             vehicle
* [Optional] `<fluid_density>` is the density of the fluid.
* [Optional] `<points>` contains a collection of points where the forces
             generated by this plugin will be applied. See the format of each
             point next:
* [Optional] `<points><point>` Relative position of the point relative to
             `link_name`.
* [Optional] `<wavefield>`: The wavefield parameters.
             See `~/gazebo_maritime_ws/src/gazebo_maritime/src/Wavefield.hh`.

Go ahead and uncomment the two blocks in
`~/gazebo_maritime_ws/src/gazebo_maritime/models/wam-v/model.sdf` to
instantiate the `Surface` plugins and see the effect on your WAM-V:

```bash
colcon build --merge-install
gz sim -r src/gazebo_maritime/worlds/sydney_regatta.sdf
```

Now your vehicle is floating in the water!

### Hydrodynamics

I know, I know, it looks like a dancing catamaran. The reason for that behavior
is because we don't have any drag yet to oppose the forces of the `Surface`
plugins. We need hydrodynamics!

We will be using Fossen's equations which describe the motion of a craft through
the water for this. For better understanding of the parameters here, I would

> refer you to [his book](https://www.wiley.com/en-sg/Guidance+and+Control+of+Ocean+Vehicles-p-9780471941132).

Reviewer: It's listed for $658 XD Can you add a caveat, like "check your library" or "contact the publisher"

Author: Added in 292e12d.
